meta-security-smack/README.md, before:

This README file contains information on the contents of the
security-smack layer.

Please see the corresponding sections below for details.


Dependencies
============

This layer depends on:

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/bitbake
  branch: master

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/openembedded-core
  layers: meta
  branch: master


Patches
=======

Please submit any patches against the security-smack layer via Github
pull requests.

Maintainer: Patrick Ohly <patrick.ohly@intel.com>


Table of Contents
=================

  I. Adding the security-framework layer to your build
 II. Misc


I. Adding the security-smack layer to your build
================================================

In order to use this layer, you need to make the build system aware of
it.

Assuming the security repository exists at the top-level of your
yocto build tree, you can add it to the build system by adding the
location of the security-framework layer to bblayers.conf, along with any
other layers needed. e.g.:

  BBLAYERS ?= " \
    /path/to/yocto/meta \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto-bsp \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-security-smack/meta-security-smack \
    "

It has some dependencies on a suitable BSP; in particular the kernel
must have certain Smack-related patches. For linux-yocto 3.14, the
necessary patches are added by this layer. The necessary kernel
configuration parameters are added to all kernel versions by this
layer.

Just adding the layer does not enable Smack. These changes can be
enabled and disabled separately via configuration variables. To enable
Smack security, add the following entries to local.conf:

    # Enable Smack support. May also be done by a distro config,
    # (using DISTRO_OVERRIDES and directly updating DISTRO_FEATURES,
    # without the _append).
    OVERRIDES .= ":smack"
    DISTRO_FEATURES_append = " smack"

    # Enable systemd.
    DISTRO_FEATURES_append = " pam"
    DISTRO_FEATURES_append += " systemd"
    VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_init_manager = "systemd"
    DISTRO_FEATURES_BACKFILL_CONSIDERED = "sysvinit"
    VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_initscripts = ""
    # CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "systemd-analyze"

    # Need Smack support in file utilities.
    CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "coreutils"

    # Having Smack utilities is useful.
    CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "smack-userspace"

II. Misc
========

This layer intentionally limits itself to configuration changes of
existing components, plus the new Smack userspace library and
tools. See the other layer(s) in this repository for higher level
security components meant to work together with Smack.

Commit message:

linux-yocto: optionally (but on by default) set Smack as default LSM
The expectation is that the layer also sets Smack as default LSM, instead of
merely enabling it. Previously, the layer did not do that because it
followed the example of the Tizen kernel-common defconfigs where the
default is not set explicitly.

Now it sets CONFIG_DEFAULT_SECURITY and CONFIG_DEFAULT_SECURITY_SMACK and thus
forces Smack as default LSM. However, that may not be desired in all cases
(for example, a kernel might contain multiple LSMs and leave the choice to the
user), so this new behavior of the layer can be controlled by setting the
SMACK_DEFAULT_SECURITY variable.

This is only relevant when there are multiple LSMs enabled or a BSP
(intentionally or unintentionally) sets the fallback DAC LSM as the default.
Otherwise (for example, with linux-yocto 3.19), kconfig itself selects Smack
as the default LSM.

Signed-off-by: Patrick Ohly <patrick.ohly@intel.com>

meta-security-smack/README.md, after:

This README file contains information on the contents of the
security-smack layer.

Please see the corresponding sections below for details.


Dependencies
============

This layer depends on:

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/bitbake
  branch: master

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/openembedded-core
  layers: meta
  branch: master


Patches
=======

Please submit any patches against the security-smack layer via Github
pull requests.

Maintainer: Patrick Ohly <patrick.ohly@intel.com>


Table of Contents
=================

  I. Adding the security-framework layer to your build
 II. Misc


I. Adding the security-smack layer to your build
================================================

In order to use this layer, you need to make the build system aware of
it.

Assuming the security repository exists at the top-level of your
yocto build tree, you can add it to the build system by adding the
location of the security-framework layer to bblayers.conf, along with any
other layers needed. e.g.:

  BBLAYERS ?= " \
    /path/to/yocto/meta \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto-bsp \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-security-smack/meta-security-smack \
    "

It has some dependencies on a suitable BSP; in particular the kernel
must have certain Smack-related patches. For linux-yocto 3.14, the
necessary patches are added by this layer. The necessary kernel
configuration parameters are added to all kernel versions by this
layer.

Just adding the layer does not enable Smack. These changes can be
enabled and disabled separately via configuration variables. To enable
Smack security, add the following entries to local.conf:

    # Enable Smack support. May also be done by a distro config,
    # (using DISTRO_OVERRIDES and directly updating DISTRO_FEATURES,
    # without the _append).
    OVERRIDES .= ":smack"
    DISTRO_FEATURES_append = " smack"

    # Enable systemd.
    DISTRO_FEATURES_append = " pam"
    DISTRO_FEATURES_append += " systemd"
    VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_init_manager = "systemd"
    DISTRO_FEATURES_BACKFILL_CONSIDERED = "sysvinit"
    VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_initscripts = ""
    # CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "systemd-analyze"

    # Need Smack support in file utilities.
    CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "coreutils"

    # Having Smack utilities is useful.
    CORE_IMAGE_EXTRA_INSTALL += "smack-userspace"

By default, enabling Smack as described above will also make Smack
the default LSM when compiling the kernel, overriding the choice
that may or may not have been made in the BSP kernel config.

If that is not desired, a distro conf can use:
    # Do not override default LSM configuration.
    SMACK_DEFAULT_SECURITY ?= ""

Using the weaker "?=" assignment allows a user to revert that
choice once more in a local.conf with:
    # Make Smack the default LSM.
    SMACK_DEFAULT_SECURITY = "${SMACK_DEFAULT_SECURITY_CFG}"

II. Misc
========

This layer intentionally limits itself to configuration changes of
existing components, plus the new Smack userspace library and
tools. See the other layer(s) in this repository for higher level
security components meant to work together with Smack.
