meta-security-framework/README.md, before:

This README file contains information on the contents of the
security-framework layer.

Please see the corresponding sections below for details.


Dependencies
============

This layer depends on:

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/bitbake
  branch: master

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/openembedded-core
  layers: meta
  branch: master

  URI: git://github.com/01org/meta-security-smack
  layers: security-smack
  branch: master


Patches
=======

Please submit any patches against the security-framework layer via
Github pull requests.

Maintainer: Patrick Ohly <patrick.ohly@intel.com>


Table of Contents
=================

  I. Adding the security-framework layer to your build
 II. Misc


I. Adding the security-framework layer to your build
====================================================

In order to use this layer, you need to make the build system aware of
it.

Assuming the security repository exists at the top-level of your
yocto build tree, you can add it to the build system by adding the
location of the security-framework layer to bblayers.conf, along with any
other layers needed. e.g.:

  BBLAYERS ?= " \
    /path/to/yocto/meta \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto-bsp \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-security-smack/meta-security-smack \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-security-smack/meta-security-framework \
    "


II. Misc
========

Conceptually, the components in this layer are optional in a
Smack-based security architecture and thus sit on top of the
meta-framework-smack layer. This layer here is meant for Cynara,
security-manager and the Cynara-aware D-Bus.

In practice, Cynara itself is independent of Smack and only needs to
be installed properly when using Smack. The components using Cynara
then use Smack labels as identifiers for the entity trying to get a
certain permission.

Commit message:

meta-intel-iot-security: prepare for public release
"meta-intel-iot-security" is the new public repository, with Github
pull requests as preferred submission method and
yocto@yoctoproject.org as fallback.

While updating the documentation, also clean up some copy-and-paste
errors and be precise about layer names: the name itself does not
include the meta- prefix, only the directory name for the layer does
(as seen in the scripts/lib/bsp/substrate/target/arch/layer/README
template).

Signed-off-by: Patrick Ohly <patrick.ohly@intel.com>

meta-security-framework/README.md, after:

This README file contains information on the contents of the
security-framework layer.

Please see the corresponding sections below for details.


Dependencies
============

This layer depends on:

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/bitbake
  branch: master

  URI: git://git.openembedded.org/openembedded-core
  layers: meta
  branch: master

  URI: git://github.com/01org/meta-intel-iot-security
  layers: security-smack
  branch: master


Patches
=======

Please submit any patches against the security-framework layer via
Github pull requests.

For discussion or patch submission via email, use the
yocto@yoctoproject.org mailing list. When submitting patches that way,
make sure to copy the maintainer and add a "[meta-intel-iot-security]"
prefix to the subject of the mails.

Maintainer: Patrick Ohly <patrick.ohly@intel.com>


Table of Contents
=================

  I. Adding the security-framework layer to your build
 II. Misc


I. Adding the security-framework layer to your build
====================================================

In order to use this layer, you need to make the build system aware of
it.

Assuming the security repository exists at the top-level of your
yocto build tree, you can add it to the build system by adding the
location of the security-framework layer to bblayers.conf, along with any
other layers needed. e.g.:

  BBLAYERS ?= " \
    /path/to/yocto/meta \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-yocto-bsp \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-intel-iot-security/meta-security-smack \
    /path/to/yocto/meta-intel-iot-security/meta-security-framework \
    "


II. Misc
========

Conceptually, the components in this layer are optional in a
Smack-based security architecture and thus sit on top of the
security-smack layer. This layer here is meant for Cynara,
security-manager and the Cynara-aware D-Bus.

In practice, Cynara itself is independent of Smack and only needs to
be installed properly when using Smack. The components using Cynara
then use Smack labels as identifiers for the entity trying to get a
certain permission.
